.TH smsSynth 1 "2008 Feb 22" GNU
.SH NAME
smsSynth - SMS Synthesis command line application.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smsSynth
[-\fIoption\fP ...]
.I inputSoundFile outputSmsFile
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fISMS\fP is a set of techniques and software implementations for the
analysis, transformation and synthesis of musical sounds based on a
sinusoidal plus residual model. These techniques can be used for
synthesis, processing and coding applications, while some of the
intermediate results might also be applied to other music related
problems, such as sound source separation, musical acoustics, music
perception, or performance analysis. The basic model and
implementation was developed in the PhD thesis by X. Serra in 1989 and
since then many extensions have been proposed at MTG-UPF and by other
researchers.

\fIsmsSynth\fP will synthesize a .sms file analyzed wish smsAnal.  By default,
the synthesis will contain deterministic and stochastic components added 
together, but you can optionally choose to just synthesize one or the other. 
For background information on how to create the analysis file, or what to do with 
it other than recreate the original, see the README included with the SMS package
or visit the SMS homepage at:
\fIhttp://www.iua.upf.es/~sms/\fP
.SH OPTIONS

.TP 8
.BI -v " verbose mode"
Print out lots of information about parameters and what is going on.
.TP 8
.BI -r " samplerate"
.B (default: original sound file's samplerate)
output sampling rate.
.TP 8
.BI -s " synth-type"
.B (default: 0) [0,1,2]
Synthesis type. 0: all, 1: deterministic only, 2: stochastic only
.TP 8
.BI -d " det-synth-type"
.B (default: 0) [0,1,2]
method of deterministic synthesis type. 0: IFFT (defailt), 1: oscillator bank
.TP 8
.BI -h " hop"
.B (default: 128)
Hop size in samples from one frame to the next. 128 <= sizeHop <= 8092, rounded to a power of 2
.TP 8
.BI -t " time-factor"
.B (default: 1)
Positive value to scale by overall time.
.TP 8
.BI -g " stoc-gain"
.B (default: 1)
Positive value to multiply into stochastic gain.
.TP 8
.BI -x " transpose"
.B (default: 0)
Transpose value based on the Equal Tempered Scale.
.TP 8
.BI -i " interp"
.B (default: 1, on)
Interpolate between frames when time scaling. 
.TP 8
.BI -f " file-type"
.B (default: 0)
Output soundfile type (default 0): 0 is wav, 1 is aiff
.SH SEE ALSO
smsAnal(1), smsClean(1), smsPrint(1), smsResample(1)

